Type of Submission*
Lab

Track*
Linux Systems

Audience Experience Level *
Intermediate

Abstract Title*
FreeIPA: Open Source Identity Management

Abstract *

Provide an abstract that briefly summarizes your proposal.

FreeIPA is an integrated identity management solution providing user, host and
service management, authentication and authorization in Linux/UNIX networked
environments, with a focus on ease of deployment and management. It is built on
top of well-known Open Source technologies and standards including 389
Directory Server, MIT Kerberos and Dogtag Certificate System.

This practical lab provides a comprehensive introduction to FreeIPA deployment
and operation. Participants will:

* Install a FreeIPA server and replica and enroll a client machine
* Create and administer users
* Manage host-based access control (HBAC) policies
* Issue X.509 certificates for network services
* Configure Apache to use FreeIPA for authentication and access control
* Choose from elective modules based on progress or specific use cases

Audience *

This lab is intended for systems administrators. Participants will learn how to
deploy FreeIPA and use it to improve security and streamline identity
management in their organization.

Participants are urged to complete the preparation steps outlined at
https://github.com/freeipa/freeipa-workshop#preparation, prior to the lab
session.

Benefits to the Ecosystem*

As an organization scales, managing users, hosts, services and access policies
becomes complex. Centralized identity management becomes essential to meeting
security objectives while reducing administrator workload. Integration with
other prominent identity management systems (e.g. Active Directory) is
essential for the success of an identity management system for Linux/UNIX
environments. Integration with web technologies is also important, because many
business applications are now accessed via the web.

FreeIPA either solves or is part of the solution for all of these problems.
Identity management solutions like FreeIPA are not merely a benefit to the
ecosystem; they are an essential part of the ecosystem.


Speaker bio

Fraser works at Red Hat on the FreeIPA identity management system and Dogtag
Certificate System. He's interested in security, cryptography, functional
programming, type theory and theorem proving. Jalapeño aficionado.
